Man, how I was so self-abusive. I wasing
brutal being in my head. I was
emotionally shut down, [music] doing
whatever was not the acceptable thing. I
ripped that open when I said, "Okay,
[music] I don't have to be who I think I
am." Sitting quietly watching the voice
in my head and learning how to react
differently to it, not believe it, not
buy into it.
>> How does one simply from the meditation
cushion be like, "I'm getting into
venture capital." you can evolve
consciousness and make money at the same
time. The root of the problem that I
wanted to work on was helping [music]
people understand themselves, to love
themselves.
Welcome to the Art of Accomplishment,
where we explore living the life you
want with enjoyment and ease. Today,
we're doing a little bit different of an
episode. I'm just going to have a
fireside chat with Joe and we're just
going to learn more about him and get
really personal with it. So, I hope you
enjoy this episode. So, Joe, there's a
whole bunch of personal questions I've
been wanting to ask you and I'm sure a
lot of other people are curious, too.
And I'd just love to do an episode where
I just ask you questions about you.
>> Okay, cool. That sounds like I'm scared.
[laughter]
>> Excellent. Great. Great. Great. So just
to start with, I'm I'm curious, you
know, you you often contrast your
upbringing with kind of where you are
now. And where you are now is you're
clearly on some sort of path. You are
very intentional about your
self-development.
>> Yeah.
>> And at some point in the past, you
presumably weren't. And I'm curious like
what what was that point of transition
to where you recognized, oh, I'm on a
path?
>> Yeah. Oh, wow. That's a good question
and I actually would it doesn't resonate
with me that I'm currently on a path
which is interesting. So there was this
the unconscious part right where I was
where I was just living. I didn't
particularly know there was a voice in
my head. I was interested in things like
the parables of Jesus and parables
widely and different religions and I was
infatuated with
um things like the daajing and and I
think it was like a Fritz Pearls book
where he talked about the upper dog and
the underdog
>> that
like started letting me understand that
I had a relationship with myself which I
think is really where the beginning of
the path was. And then if it was not
fully understood that I was on a path
when I finished a meditation retreat
where I had this experience of oneness
for eight seconds then I was like I am
on a path and I am there to get this
thing. So there was some kind of
awareness that I was into
self-development once I understood that
there was a self that I was interacting
with and then there was like I am on a
path.
>> Mhm.
>> To try to get to a place.
>> And how old were you around the time of
that meditation retreat? How long in
>> 26
college up to 26 was sort of this kind
of
>> I'm interested in this seeing through
the self thing.
>> Yeah I'm interested well it started with
I'm interested in like getting back to
that state and then it just became oh
it's really selfex though was
experienced when you were 26. Yes. So
prior to that, you were like, "Oh, I'm
kind of exploring what it's like to be a
self." And then you had that meditation
retreat
>> and then there was like a very clear
path and
>> and then there was the moment when that
oh that thing that I'm trying to get
back to is always here and that kind of
recognition that's so hard to describe
happened and then there was a way in
which the path kind of fell apart.
>> Yeah. [snorts] So, you mentioned you had
this experience of oneness and then you
were hung up for a while trying to get
back to that experience of oneness. I'm
curious if like for that one and then
others, what are what are some other
hang-ups? What are the what are some of
the things that you've kept hitting on
your turns on the corkcrew
for your own development, your own self
exploration?
>> Yeah, I mean they're all the like the
core issues from from childhood. They
don't go away, you know? I feel like I
can almost everything that's causing me
pain, I've been able to find some way in
which it relates to my childhood,
>> relates to something that I learned
early on or an earlier trauma like I can
I can find that. And big ones
um have been, you know,
uh not being seen, abandonment,
um anger was a huge one for like 10
years. just I was
>> accessing it or
>> getting angry at people like putting
putting my anger out on other people.
>> Yeah.
>> Holding other people responsible for my
my stuff like uncontrolled anger or or
very constricted anger. So I was just a
dick. Um those are all things and and
the breakthroughs almost always came the
same way which is welcoming an emotional
experience, bringing my attention to it.
Um having faith that it can change like
knowing that I that this will be
different over time. Uh grief is a big
part of the process of all of those
shifts like really being there's a
moment where
you kind of see the whole thing and
you're like, "Oh man, I didn't have to
be living like this." And this grief
comes and if you don't feel that grief,
there's a moment that usually comes in
every one of them where you're like,
"Who the hell will I be if that happens?
If I let that in, nobody will be able to
relate to me anymore. I'll never be like
that moment."
>> Yeah.
>> And at the beginning, you're like, "I
don't want to feel grief. I don't want
to feel like I don't want to dissolve
and nobody can recognize me. And now,
you know, as you go through it a couple
times, you're like, "Yeah, cool."
There's that there's that grief moment.
There's that moment of uh uh who am I
going to be at the end of this thing.
>> Yeah. You've mentioned how it took you
like 14 years to be able to cry. And I
I'm curious. So you
>> you got a degree in psychology which at
the time you took those classes
>> psychology and academia looked a certain
way
>> and we could get into that.
>> Yeah.
>> And you were doing non-dual practices
meditation
>> which can look a certain way. You could
have like a neck up awakening and just
be non-dual but not feel what's going on
here. But something that really strikes
me about this work is how embodied it
is. How about you know the emotional
fluidity on the muscular and nervous
system level it is?
>> Yeah.
>> And a lot of your work has been
influenced by like we don't often
mention a lot of the sources like
Alexander Lohen you mentioned sometimes
there's
>> Reich like you did some Reiki and breath
work for seven years. You've mentioned
that a few times. How did you get
exposed to and really take and run with
the really deeply embodied physical uh
aspects of the work?
>> Yeah, the well the first thing that
happened where I got really lucky was
that after the the kind of the head
awakening,
I had the immediate recognition that I
thought that that that was going to be
an end and it wasn't an end. It was just
the beginning. Evolution doesn't end.
The path ended because I didn't have
anywhere to go anymore. the non-duality
in meditation that was you know I was
very head oriented I was my body was
very unsafe because I was
you know told taught not to care about
my body um
not to listen to my feelings not to cry
so all that the my only access point
really was my head so and I happened to
live with a woman who was highly into
the embodied emotional thing because she
was an actress Tara and like So she like
she learned all that stuff. So I so I
also was exposed to it. I knew there was
something over in that corner. But
[snorts]
>> the first thing that happened was I
>> was in downtown one day and this person
walked by and I was like, "What the [__]
happened to you?" Which is where I found
most of the modalities was I saw a
significant change in somebody and I
went, "What whatever it is you're you're
doing, tell me what it is. I'm just
going to go do that thing." M
>> and and that person had done Reiki and
breath work with a woman who's now dead.
Um Michelle and Michelle was the person
who taught it and uh and so I was just
like, "Yep, sign me up." And so that was
sitting in her room naked on a bed
breathing and she would push on me. She
would literally just like like I'd come
out bruised often. Um, and she would
look at whatever my muscular mus muscles
were holding and she'd push. And I
remember one time it was like 3 years
in, four years I did this for 7 years. 3
or 4 years in I vomited. And she's like,
good. You're almost releasing. I'm like,
I just vomited. Michelle, come on. Like
that's a release. She's like, [laughter]
she had her own issues. Um, but she was
just like incredibly emotionally fluid.
There was she had no
>> She said what she wanted to say. There
was no there was no [snorts] filter in
her world, you know, and and so
>> and so muscularly I like very much
changed because of that work and and and
a deep embodiment came in that like
feeling all the emotions was really
important and breath work generally
there's kinds of there's breath works
that
>> you can do to
>> do lots of things disassociate or
dissociate or or increase your you know
immune system. There's all sorts of
things, but a lot of it will release
emotions. And so, if you can find one
that like fully releases emotions. So,
that that's that's one of the things
that I did. I also um found a worker who
did was really into Loen's work and and
every therapy session. It was like a
therapist, but it was and every [snorts]
session was a physical release of some
sort. And so, that really helped me get
embodied. So there was just I had some
great teachers who
>> who really but but the calling was
because of Tara
>> because Tara I saw that there was
something that I was missing and and I
also saw like oh I could access peace
but I but joy wasn't there.
>> Yeah.
>> I was at peace but I wasn't in love with
the world.
>> So when you guys met like tell me about
what your lifestyles were at that time.
You were you [laughter] were in your
30s.
No, no. We were 20 um 26, you know,
right around that time frame
>> in San Francisco.
>> San Francisco artists. I Tara will tell
you very quickly I had a bull cut and I
look like a complete nerd.
>> You had a bull cut when I met you. So
that was a long
>> even even a worse bull cut. [laughter]
That was like kind of like Yeah, this is
complete bull cut. Um I would
>> somehow I stuck around with
>> I was in a rock and roll band. I was
playing music and I was very much like,
"Fuck the system. [__] money. [__]
business."
Um,
uh, I had a chip on my shoulder. I had
something to prove. I was emotionally
shut down. I dressed in a way that I
could be anywhere, [sighs]
you know, where I could just fit in in
the corners of a business meeting or at
an artist thing. So I I was going
through the world
collecting as many experiences as I
could,
>> you know, I would drive try to find that
like weird bar in the middle of nowhere
and talk to people who were like actual
cowboys.
>> I mean I remember I remember like this
would be a typical story in those days.
I'm driving it home from LA and there's
this guy with kind of dreadlocks
hitchhiking. I pick him up. He's from
Uruguay.
We talk about Uruguay and then he's
like, "I'm going to San Francisco." I'm
like, "Cool, but we're not going to go
the direct way. We're just going to like
I'm like, "This is a big valley, the
Central Valley. So, we don't we can just
take any road. Look, I'll show you." And
so, like we and he got a little scared,
but then we saw a trailer that said cold
beer Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Walked
in, all cowboys. back in the day when
it, you know, today it's like, oh,
cowboys and some hippies getting
together. It's like not a big thing.
Back then it was like enemies.
And I'm looking as neutral as possible.
Bull cut Joe guy, t-shirt and like
pants. And and we walk in and the music
they're literally playing music and the
music they literally stop playing.
>> And they look at this guy and they look
at me and I'm okay. And I was like used
to being putting myself into these
situations. So I just like I was like,
"Hey, I was just hit I was just driving
up from LA and this guy was hitchhiking.
He's from Uruguay. Do you all know where
Uruguay is?" [laughter]
Next thing you know, we're drinking
beers in this trailer. It was literally
a mobile home trailer that we're having
the the bar in. And I'm talking to this
guy who's a cowboy who literally only
owns a car and a saddle.
And he's telling me stories about what
it's like to be out. He just goes like
out in the open with some cows for
multiple days on time at a time, weeks
at a time, and then comes in,
stays with a woman, his girlfriend or
not, sleeps on the side of the road,
whatever he needs to do, drinks some
beer, and then off he goes again. And
we're talking about like how much
whiskey the owner of the ranch gives
him, you know, per day or whatever. But
like that was like a just a really like
that was my experience and I was
constantly finding the most obscure
people places that I could
>> and understanding them like hanging out
with homeless people or hanging out with
billionaires. Like I would find these
little niches. I literally there's one
time when we were digging holes to
understand wetlands in Yuma, Arizona.
And within one day, I hung out with a
homeless person named Lucky
who had been living and jumping on rails
and living homeless for 15 years. And
the next day, I'm hanging out with one
of the Waltons
and like hanging out with like from from
Walmart and and hanging out with
billionaires. It was like that was that
was my reality. It was just I was trying
to find I was trying to understand
humanity in any way that I could.
>> Yeah. So, you mentioned you mentioned
before on the podcast too that you don't
like cooked fish and I heard once
[laughter] a story that seems to be
used.
>> I used to not like fish at all.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Tell tell and this seems related
to the finding the weird nooks and
crannies of experience and like what
made you
>> have this experience with fish for some
time? [laughter]
Oh, fish story. Um, [snorts] okay. So,
I'm I'm finished with college.
I'm just out of college. And I had just
read a book called Black Elk Speaks,
which was um a medicine man,
Lakota medicine man. And in it he talks
about the sun ritual about how
the endurance of pain and understanding
the endurance of pain gives you an
appreciation for life. And and my buddy
had said, "Hey, I'm going up to Alaska
to butcher fish, work at a canery. Do
you want to come with me and we'll
hitchhike up there?" And I was like,
"That's my son. That's my son ritual."
>> And um and so and I needed some money so
I felt like I this would be a great way
to do it. And and so my buddy and I
hitchhiked up there. Great great like
one story after another meeting crazy
individuals
um and learning about humanity on the
way up. But the
but when I we're flying into it's in the
Bristol Bay which is that big bay right
before the Illutian Islands and we're
>> toak uh not Kodiak tok Alaska which is
where we were. And so we're flying in
and my buddy said,
"You know, this work is like digging a
ditch
16 hours a day butchering these fish." I
was like, "Okay." You know, and we land
and the guy's like, "The septic is gone.
You're digging ditches."
And we literally dug ditches 16 hours a
day only to find out that they had a
backhoe and all that was crap. They were
just warming us up
>> so that we could do the work. And when
we did the work, it was
>> like kicking you down the steps at the
temple.
[laughter]
>> Exactly. Don't it was only find out that
the work was a lot harder than digging
the ditches. And so and we would work,
you know, we slept maybe 6 hours a
night. I when we finished, we literally
slept for 36 hours straight. It was I
remember I got injured so I had to go to
a hospital and I came back and I had
gotten a little bit of sleep and I
remember looking at my friend talking to
another one of my friends. One friend
was drooling and the other friend wasn't
noticing.
Okay, it was like that level of fatigue
that was going on. And so during that
time,
>> we had all sorts of parlor tricks that
we would play. And one of them was
[sighs]
gut tag, [laughter]
where how many fish guts could you pile
into somebody else's like slickers
without them noticing. [laughter]
So, as it turns out, I didn't really
like eating fish after that. And it took
me until Tara to
>> get into sushi. And I I and now I can
even eat mostly a lot of cooked fish,
but it took me a while to get there.
>> That's how that's how happened. But it
was all that I wanted to collect as many
experiences as I possibly could.
>> And what made what turned on that bug in
you for collecting experiences. How did
that get ignited?
>> I think in retrospect it was all about
trying to understand humanity
for whatever. Well, one of my passions
has always been to understand people.
Mhm. And how did that interest get
kicked off?
>> I don't know. I don't know if it was
born with I was told it at a young age.
I remember being told at a really young
age, oh, you'll be a psychologist when
you grow up.
>> Um, just because I always had this
interest in humanity. I always had Yeah.
So, I don't I don't know particularly
like I can't think of a story as as to
how that happened.
>> It just it just was always there for me.
And I I think if I had to guess, it
would be like trying to read my father
when when like part of survival is that
when your father walks in the room, he's
an alcoholic. You better understand that
[__] really quick or you're going to get
in trouble.
>> Also recognizing you you grew up in
various places including Iran and like
you left Iran as the as the revolution
was happening.
>> I lived in Iran and Saudi Arabia and
Wales and England and Switzerland and
Yeah. And so that also probably had
something because like seeing cultures
completely differently like
>> Right. Yeah.
>> You mean you've got you've got to see
this.
>> You go to another culture and you see
how you learn so much more about your
own culture by seeing it in contrast to
another one.
>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And you get to see oh
all of this stuff that's all choice.
That's all culture.
>> Yeah.
>> All of this stuff that's humanity. I got
to hang out with a lot of tribes during
this time and at least like six or seven
in America and at least two or three
outside of America and and you got to
see, wow, a lot of this is choice. A lot
of what we think is right or wrong is
actually just cultural.
>> Mhm.
>> And then it just really fired me up as
to like, well, what's what's human,
>> right?
>> Like what is what is what is the Yeah.
What is the essence of essentially?
>> What are we essentially?
>> Yeah. And so that's yeah so that's that
was my 20s was until my late 20s like 27
that's that was everything was just
about gathering as many experiences as I
could gather from like sailing in Tahiti
to hanging out with homeless people for
a week or whatever it was. I was just
like doing whatever I could going out
into the middle of the woods and with
nobody. I was just gathering experiences
>> and it was an investigation into myself
and into humanity but not in a way that
was like any kind of path. It was
>> which is probably probably really useful
because I I didn't have an agenda,
>> right? You're just broadly exploring
collecting data.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah. Following
>> Yeah.
>> What were you following? You were Sounds
like you were following collecting
experiences.
>> Yeah, I was following my interests. I
was following my wants, right, before I
had like a way that I had to be,
>> right? And then somewhere in the that's
the other thing that kicked in is like
all of a sudden there was this way I had
to be like that that that was as far as
your question earlier about what was my
pain and man I was so self-abusive.
I cannot tell you how self- abusive I
was. I was [__] brutal being in my
head. There was just like no win. I
remember like the first time I'm in my I
think I'm like 25. I'm doing my first
fast on my own. I just decided it was a
good idea to go out and fast on my own
in in the woods in this old hermit's
cabin that I had heard about.
And I remember literally seeing that my
brain would not like there was no
[__] winning that I was just like
what the hell? This thing in my head
makes it so I cannot [__] win. And
and even and it was like and I'd be
like, "Okay, I can't [__] win." It
was like, "Yeah, you can't win. You got
to try harder." I was like, "What the
[__] is going on?"
>> Sounds like a badass acid trip.
>> Oh my god. Oh my god. But that was my
life. That was every day for me. That
was it was Yeah. It was brutal. I I I
don't know. Obviously, I can't know what
other people's voice in their head is
like, but mine was severe.
It was it was it wasn't you should kill
yourself, which we we see people with
that from time to time, but it was
definitely there was no doing right.
There is no way that I was not going to
be
told I was wrong or bad. How is it that
you had that incredibly self-abusive
voice in the head, critical, no way to
win, and yet you're following your
wants, exploring the world with all this
open curiosity and wonder for humanity.
How do those juxtapose?
>> I think I don't know exactly, but I
think that the reason that that happened
was because I was I always think about
this as I was so lucky to be born the
black sheep, to be put in the role of
the black sheep. So, I was the rebel. I
was the one who wasn't going to do the
things that everybody was supposed to
do. I wasn't going to get the job. I
wasn't going to do what my parents
thought. I wasn't authority shouldn't be
trusted. So, I'm not doing that. I'm
going to go do my own thing. So, I was
going to the weird like the first thing
was Dowist studies and Buddhist. I was
going to the thing that you're not
supposed to back then like there there
wasn't a lot of Buddhism. There wasn't
definitely America and there's a lot of
Christianity. So, the taboo thing is
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> Buddhism and you're going there.
>> I was just doing whatever was not the
acceptable thing.
>> That was that was absolutely my motus
operandi. It was just
>> any way that I can look feel like a
rebel and and be above and despise those
people. Everything that was okay was
like that was just mainstream was evil.
>> Yeah. How do you go from like bucking
the mainstream to being Mr. Be authentic
in who you are,
>> happy, joy? Yeah. All that. Yeah. I
mean, it's like crazy. I literally I
will probably tear up thinking about
>> You could call it learning how to love
yourself or you can call it
self-discovery. you could call it. I
mean, for me, because I had so much
abuse,
there was a lot of my time was literally
just not reacting to the voice in my
head, like bringing awareness to the
voice in my head. It was a slow process.
There's a lot of tools that can move you
quicker. It's a necessary process. I
think you can't not do that and and and
end up but it's um it's very much it was
the the very first part of my journey
that was a real part of the journey was
sitting quietly watching the voice in my
head and learning how to react
differently to it.
>> Not believe it. Not buy into it. Not do
the thing that it said to do. realized
my reaction to it. I ripped that open
when I said, "Okay, I I don't have to be
who I think I am. I I can I [snorts] can
die or um [clears throat]
be
find out what's underneath this stuff.
There's a lot of there's freedom in it."
And so it kind of was this reinforcing
loop.
And I think that's something that's
maybe the most powerful thing we can do
for anybody in all of our courses is
like
just let them see it's possible.
>> Just let like give them that experience
of like oh some part of my ego I don't
like calling it that. I don't call it
that very often but letting some part of
my identity drop away and the freedom on
the other side of that.
And so I'm curious, how how did that
translate into doing what you do in
business? How did you find the entry
point into bringing that into so such a
high pressure, high achievement
>> Yeah.
>> environment?
>> So I think there's a couple things. One
of the the one of the few ways I felt
connected with my father was talking
about business. He would come and talk
about business and I would learn from
him. I I have that same connection with
Una, not with Esme, but Una and I like
love talking about business together. So
there was some sort of like sol problem
solving thing that I really liked about
business and I thought about it a lot
and so
and even when I was rebelling against
stuff I'd be like how do I make money
and I'd be like oh and I'd do this
complicated business thing to make
enough money so I could meditate you
know and
>> so I wasn't trying to make money I was
just trying to buy time and um
and so but so I always kind of had one
thumb in business. I, you know, did
international stock lending at a young
age and I did legal and compliance for a
bank at at a young age. And so I just I
always have my hand in it. And then
again, my family came along and it was
time to have a family. Like I was clear
that it's time to have a kid and you got
to make some money. And so I just was
like, how do I make money? And that's
when I like moved into venture capital
and and so it was really for having a
family that I made my I would I had no
interest in making money before that. I
was 35 years old and I was
>> How did you simply move into venture
capital? Like how how does one simply
[laughter]
from the meditation cushion be like I'm
getting into venture capital?
>> I was doing large scale um yeah even
weirder. I was doing large scale video
art and uh and there and the only people
buy large scale video art are really
wealthy people. And so one of these very
wealthy people. So we would just talk
about money and I gave him a couple
pieces of advice around gold at the time
and oil at the time and what was going
to happen and it made him a lot of
money. And this was just happening while
I'm doing this art installation. I've
been thinking a lot about what's
happening with gold and oil and [gasps]
and this was at a time when both of
those two things spiked.
And uh he's like, "Well, come and work
for me." And I said, "Nah, I'm doing
art. I'm good." And
he said, "Well, if you could do
anything, what would you want to do?"
And so I went home and I thought about
it for three months. And then I called
him up and I said, "Well, the change I
want to see in the world is more like
>> basically how do we as a as humanity
heal conscious in a consciousness
>> way?" Cuz I'd been meditating like how
do I bring this into the world? And then
the other thing I'm really interested in
is how to help the environment. So he
gave me some capital to do both of those
two things. And so I spent 12 years
starting organizations for helping kids
with consciousness and then I spent the
same 12 years doing venture in in
environmental and we specifically
focused on agriculture because that's
where nobody was playing and where most
of the resources were being used.
>> How have both of those thesis evolved
like consciousness for nonprofits and
environmental for venture capital? I
think there was something that you know
what I saw in the environmental world
was that people used to think in the 70s
you can be an environmentalist or you
could be a businessman
and you couldn't be both but somewhere
in the '90s people were like oh yeah you
can be both and still to this day you
can be both
and I was like that same thing is going
to happen with consciousness
>> that you can become a conscious like you
can evolve consciousness and make money
at the same time or capitalism can be a
force for
helping humanity heal, become
themselves, understand themselves. And
so I would say that's how [sighs]
I also noticed I the other thing that
happened was what I noticed is the in
the environmental space that the number
one problem was human ego. It wasn't
there was plenty of technology that
could whatever environmental problems we
have, we have the technology to solve
them by far easily. All we need is
humanity to be human. Like all we need
is like egos to [snorts]
to to stop doing what egos do. And so I
realized that the root of the problem
that I wanted to work on was
was uh helping people understand
themselves to love themselves because
that was what's probably going to solve
all the rest of the problems. That's
that's the core. All these problems came
out of human consciousness. [sighs]
So, human consciousness shifts.
And there's actually like some pretty
cool studies and thesises that show like
if you're trying to change a complex
system that involves humans, the first
thing you do is change the the story,
the thoughts of the human.
>> So, how did that end up transitioning to
working with leaders?
>> So, I was a bad investor, as it turns
out. What I didn't understand is what
you're looking for is
[sighs]
um
an entrepreneur who doesn't need you.
>> That's what you're actually looking for.
And my background was to be needed, you
know, like that's what gave me some
sense of validation. And I I see this a
lot in the business world today that
being useful,
showing that I can contribute was a
really important part of my identity.
And so I would pick things that needed
me, which is a really bad way to invest
venture money. What you really want to
pick is people who don't [__] need
you,
>> who find you to be a nuisance. And so
because of that, a lot of the
investments we were making weren't
working. And so the only thing I could
do was to like
coach them on changing consciousness.
And so through that whole process, I
just got into the coaching world of
like, oh, here's all the stuff I've
learned about myself and here's how I
see that apply to business. And here's
how a business tool, if you put a tilt
of self-awareness into it, actually
becomes a more powerful business tool. I
didn't know if it would, but I I kept on
doing the experiments cuz I knew I
needed that. That's kind of
self-development at business had to be a
form of self-development for me or I was
going to lose interest in it. And what
happened was that uh enough people
enough people started knowing about me
and then that other people like you got
to you got to get coached by this person
and so next thing I know I was in
Silicon Valley and so famous you know
rich people were like hey will you coach
me
>> and then there was just more people then
to coach than I had time for and then I
started doing these small little groups
which you were part of the third one and
then at some point I was like this is my
calling. I remember, you know,
people thinking like saying to me, "Oh,
you could should become a teacher or
something way earlier than that."
>> And I remember constantly going, "No."
Like one, I was really scared that I saw
a lot of teachers get stuck.
>> Like when they started teaching, they
stopped evolving because they got
cemented into this place. And there it
was like I used to talk about it like
they're on the side of a mountain
holding onto a rope helping everybody
get to where they are but they're not
climbing still.
>> Mhm. Um, so there was that and also I
was just like I
I was like I have not discovered way
like I don't understand myself enough to
teach cuz I saw a whole bunch of people
teaching
that clearly didn't have the
understanding and I saw them doing
damage and but that so I just didn't I
just didn't do it for years and I and
yeah many people were like oh you should
teach. I'm like,
>> and then it happened, literally happened
because I need I needed [laughter] to
make my investments work.
[laughter]
>> Yeah,
I haven't thought about it that way.
That's so true.
>> You did all [laughter] this to get
better at capitalism.
>> Exactly.
Capital. Yes. Exactly. So, in short, uh,
capitalism has made me what I am today.
[laughter]
sound bite.
>> Yeah. So that that's that's how it
happened. And
I mean and the journey just continues,
right? The
it becomes more subtle. That's the
interesting thing is it it becomes more
subtle.
Like right now there's just there's a
rec like the business is growing all of
a sudden. Now we have lots more people
coming to us and and there's a good
chance that this is just the beginning
of the beginning, right? Like and I
realize and I see how that has like a
lot of destructive capacity.
Uh if I hold that in a way that's
if I [clears throat] hold that too
firmly or with too much identity. But
more importantly, it's almost I don't
know how to say this like this is on the
edge of my understanding, but there's
I realize that somebody like a Donald
Trump or a Sam Alman or a Bono or
whatever, whoever the Bono is of today,
they hold like a lot of people's energy.
They hold [gasps]
you there's a lot of attention being
directed at them
>> and [clears throat] it it's pretty
amazing. Like it's pretty easy to feel
what I'm talking about if you just
imagine being on stage with like
150,000 people like
>> cheering you know it's like whoa like
that's just got to be such an intense
experience
but you know there's some version of
that that happens when
10 million people watch you on YouTube
or whatever that thing like there's this
like this thing and and I see the way
that a lot of people hold that really
like doesn't work out for them in the
long run
>> or are held by it.
>> There's the term audience capture for
>> Yeah.
>> You know, you
>> to the extent that you're not aware
>> of yourself,
>> you don't notice how you're being
influenced by the crowd, by the way
you're seen, by the way by the energy
holding you.
>> Yeah.
>> As you ascend into a leadership position
>> or descend into a
>> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Exactly. And so
that that and so the thing that I'm
realizing is like up until now the way
that the journey has been is
become
less me through
dissolution
meaning
the recognition that it the teaching
isn't mine. It's coming through me. That
it's not personal. that it's
um
that it's like a gift.
And that's it's always kind of been how
I've been able to [sighs]
see more clearly through the process and
be a a better conduit for what wants to
move. And when I hear you say that it I
don't hear you say that in a way that's
deflecting like responsibility like oh
it's just happening through me whatever
happens it's not my
>> no there's some
>> though I don't hold responsibility the
same way but yes
>> it feels like you're present in it how
do you experience that like just to flip
the question from an observation to a
question for you how how do you hold
this
reality this This way of seeing whatever
is happening is moving through you
without
uh without bypassing without using it as
a way to avoid the like
sense of gravity that it can have like
that you are actually having an impact.
>> Yeah. Up until now it has been or you
know about a year ago up until a year
ago it was very much like um
it allowed me to be
more present because it wasn't about my
ego because it wasn't about personal. It
was like it's like oneness was kind of
at the forefront. And what I'm getting
to now is what I'm realizing is I
actually the personal has to be
reinccorporated back into it for for me
to be able to be healthy if this thing
continues to grow. [snorts]
And so what that looks like is on one
level it's like yeah it's me doing this.
It's like it's not not me. It's like
it's me doing this and there's like and
and but the other way the the most
profound way that I felt it recently is
I was at a hot springs and two things
happened at the hot springs. The first
thing that happened at the hot springs
is I woke up out of bed. I'm shirtless
and I'm like wandering to the bathroom
and I'm half awake and I'm like and
somebody's like Joe Hudson
and I'm like
>> I'm like uh yeah I took your course and
I was like oh
goodness like it was like [laughter]
this moment and there was like and it
was like six women
and they were all
oh the course I heard about your course
and like this whole thing I'm like I
just want to go into my room and be
alone. alone.
>> So, there was that moment that happened
and then the the other moment that
happened in in the hot springs was there
was this guy and he was just hanging out
and we we talked for a couple minutes
and he just talked about this one moment
in his life when he was at a Walmart and
he helped somebody interpret one of
their dreams and it made a difference in
her life and he just started weeping
and I'm like, you can't do that if it's
not personal,
>> right? and and and so it's like taking
it personal in that way also, right?
Like it's nowadays it's
at least daily. Now it's maybe even
getting twice a day that I get a DM or a
a handwritten note the other day, type
notes of people not knowing me showing
gratitude just needing to express
gratitude for what the work has done in
their lives. That's like constantly
happening now. Like I constantly am
seeing and being told about somebody
whose life has changed.
And to be intimate with that experience
is incredibly personal. To allow that to
break my heart. I know that that that to
allow that in on a personal level, on an
intimate level, is going to be required
for me not to become dismissive of
people to not
There's this whole thing about power
that like as you have more power, you
lose empathy. There's like a whole bunch
of studies on it. For me not to lose
that empathy, it actually requires me to
allow that to break my heart on a
consistent basis like this guy in this
hotring.
And so there's that's like and that's so
now instead of the
the freedom coming from like a
dissolution of self, it's almost more
like a permeability of self. It's like
it's becoming so large that there's more
space. And it's such an interesting
thing. And I was talking to somebody who
had like six on one of the podcasts I
was doing, one of the
six had six million followers. And he's
like, "Yeah, I know what you're talking
about.
like like the people who are in those
places, they can feel the ones who are
going to survive it. Like the ones who
I'm like, I want to be like you when
you're doing like I'm doing 6 million
people. Like they can feel they like
they can tell you what it's like to have
that whatever you want to call energy
directed at them or to have that
I don't want to call it weight cuz it's
not weight but just to be I think it's
like a focal point. It's like being a
focal point like that. It's just and and
how to do that in a way that actually
allows me to not compartmentalize
myself, stay in myself, stay present.
Yeah, it's a great life. I like I keep
on thinking I I said it once I think I
was talking to Aia
>> Aia Shanti.
>> Aia Shante and um
and he said, "How's life?" I said, "A
dream come true that I never thought
could happen.
>> I I never even imagined the possibility
of it.
Thanks everybody for listening. This was
a different format than we typically do.
If you really liked it, let us know.
We'll do more of these little longer
format fireside chats. If you want to
hear more, check us out on YouTube at
Art of Accomplishment or you can find us
on Spotify, all your other podcast
platforms. The podcast is hosted by
myself and Joe Hudson. And Mi Kelly is
our producer. And this episode is edited
by Reasonable Volume.